Instructions to run the devcontainer locally (#1568)
python/devguide: getting-started/setup-building.rst

------------------------------

If you want more control over the environment, or to work offline,
you can build the container locally.
This is meant for users who have (or want to get) some experience
with containers.
The following instructions are a starting point for
your own customizations.
They assume a Unix-like environment, and Docker or Podman installed.

In a clone of the `cpython-devcontainers repo <https://github.com/python/cpython-devcontainers>`_,
build the container and name it ``cpython-dev``:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker build devcontainer/ --tag cpython-dev

(Substitute ``podman`` for ``docker`` if you use Podman.)

The same command will update any existing ``cpython-dev`` container.
Run it again from time to time -- especially if the container stops
working for you.

To run the container, run one of the following commands in a clone of the
CPython repository.

.. code-block:: bash

   docker run -it --rm --volume $PWD:/workspace --workdir /workspace cpython-dev

.. code-block:: bash

   podman run -it --rm --volume $PWD:/workspace:Z --workdir /workspace cpython-dev

Note that the container has read/write access to the working directory.

> You may want to use a separate clone of CPython, or run ``git clean -fxd``

Author: ```suggestion
You may want to use a separate clone of CPython, or run ``make clean``
```
(I use `git clean` which works across projects, but it removes any untracked files, which can be devastating if you don't expect it.)
